Update README.md to standalone without the cookbook (#424)
COSIMA/cosima-recipes: README.md

</a>

# cosima-recipes

> This is a collection of example recipes and tutorials on analysing Ocean and SeaIce model output produced by [COSIMA: Consortium for Ocean-Sea Ice Modelling in Australia](http://cosima.org.au/) and its members. Most examples use output from the [ACCESS-OM2 model](https://doi.org/10.5194/gmd-13-401-2020), while some also use results from MOM6 configurations and remote sensing observations. To access the data used in these recipes you need an account and project with the Australian based [National Computational Infrastructure (NCI)](https://nci.org.au/)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A collection of example recipes and tutorials on analysing ocean and sea ice model output produced by the [Consortium for Ocean-Sea Ice Modelling in Australia (COSIMA)](http://cosima.org.au/).

Most examples use output from the [ACCESS-OM2 model](https://doi.org/10.5194/gmd-13-401-2020), while some also use results from configurations of the Modular Ocean Model v6 (MOM6) and remote sensing observations.

To access the data used in these recipes you need an account with the Australian-based [National Computational Infrastructure (NCI)](https://nci.org.au/).
```

Author: Is MOM actually v6 ? Its just MOM6, and MOM6 will have its own versions?

Reviewer: As far as I understand there is MOMX, X=1,2,3,4,5,6 but I doubt GFDL is doing any semantic versioning for MOM5 or MOM6.

But you are raising a fair point! My suggestion is to be verbose (Modular Ocean Model instead of MOM). And we can add a link to the MOM6 repo so people don't get confused whether this is v6 of MOM or some version of MOM6. So how about

```
[Modular Ocean Model 6 (MOM6)](https://github.com/mom-ocean/MOM6)
```

I don't even know what the main repository is tbh... [see https://forum.access-hive.org.au/t/mom6-code-where-it-lives-and-whats-the-best-way-to-know-what-version-im-using/118]

> To **get started** with `cosima-recipes`, clone this repository in your local space on one of the NCI HPC machines so you can have access to model output. You should then be able to run these recipes through an [Australian Research Environment (ARE)](https://are.nci.org.au/) JupyterLab session running python. You need to join projects _hh5, xp65, ik11, cj50_ and _ol01_ to run the recipes and acccess the data analysed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To **get started** with `cosima-recipes`, clone this repository in your local space on one of the NCI HPC machines so you can have access to model output. You should then be able to run these recipes through an [Australian Research Environment (ARE)](https://are.nci.org.au/) JupyterLab session running python. You need to join projects `hh5`, `xp65`, `ik11`, `cj50` and `ol01` to run the recipes and acccess the data.
```

Author: what if I italicise each project name individually? is that better

Reviewer: You prefer italics? Go for it!

Reviewer: Perhaps we can add a link to https://my.nci.org.au/ where we say "You need to join projects...."?

> When starting ARE, include the projects in the _Storage_ line: _gdata/xp65+gdata/ik11+gdata/cj50+gdata/hh5+gdata/oi10_ as well as your own project. In _Module directories_, set _/g/data/hh5/public/modules_ and in _Modules_ set _conda/analysis3_.

Author: Add note about instance size

Reviewer: Shouldn't we use `this format` for input the users should put enter?

Author: Good point - yes :)

## Contents

> We are in the process of transition these recipes from using [cosima-cookbook](https://github.com/COSIMA/cosima-cookbook) infrastructure to an _intake catalogue_, so you will find recipes may use either method to access model data. If you are halfway through a project using the cosima-cookbook and looking for resources, this [tag](https://github.com/COSIMA/cosima-recipes/tree/cosima_cookbook) marks the repository before most recipes were transitioned.

Reviewer: let's just remove any references to cookbook... whoever uses cookbook they know, else they should just go to Intake

Reviewer 2: Yeah, I agree...

Author: I think it's better to describe where we are at ... there's lots of unresolved references to the cookbook in docs and notebooks that will take some time to work through

Reviewer: I prefer we have a clean tutorial for the Intake and how people should open datasets and don't mention cookbook at all. It creates confusion.

Reviewer: I opened an issue to discuss this: #425

### [Tutorials](https://cosima-recipes.readthedocs.io/en/latest/tutorials.html)

> The notebook [ACCESS-NRI_Intake_Catalog](https://cosima-recipes.readthedocs.io/en/latest/Tutorials/ACCESS-NRI_Intake_Catalog.html) outlines the basic philosophy of the Intake catalog and how to transition from using the cosima-cookbook to the Intake catalogue. This is the best place to start if you are not familiar with the Intake catalog. Also included here are some other tutorials, related to techniques (e.g. [Making_Maps_with_Cartopy.ipynb](https://cosima-recipes.readthedocs.io/en/latest/Tutorials/Making_Maps_with_Cartopy.html)) or tools (e.g. [Model Agnostic Analysis](https://cosima-recipes.readthedocs.io/en/latest/Tutorials/Model_Agnostic_Analysis.html))

Reviewer: Let's avoid the "transition"? Let's just point people to the Intake. Let's detach from the legacy of the past?

Author: The tutoral goes into a lot of detail about transitioning. Its the content of the tutorial !

Reviewer: OK. Perhaps I'm suggesting we need a new tutorial detached from the past and looking to the future.

But that's a different PR.
